---
layout: post
img: workflow.jpg
title: Bandit 4 -> 5
date: 2025-05-10 09:48 +0800
categories: Bandit-Overthewire
tags: [overthewire, Bandit, wargames]
---

## What is overthewire?
It is a website that provides challenges that help learning Linux commands and cybersecurity concepts.

## Prerequisite
you need to know what Linux is and how to use it a little bit before jumping into the challenges.

You can play this game via Windows, Linux-based or Mac OS computer.

---
## level goal:
The password for the next level is stored in the only human-readable file in the inhere directory. Tip: if your terminal is messed up, try the “reset” command.
### Commands you may need:
ls,cd,cat,file,du,find

---

## Solution:
Login to bandit4 using ssh by password `2WmrDFRmJIq3IPxneAaMGhap0pFhF3NJ` at port 2220.
```ssh
ssh bandit3@bandit.labs.overthewire.org -p 2220
```
It will take you to home directory of bandit4.

List the content of directory.
```ssh
bandit4@bandit:~$ ls
inhere
```
{: .nolineno}


It is a directory named inhere. move into the directory for further inspection and check the content of the directory.

```ssh
bandit3@bandit:~$ cd inhere
bandit3@bandit:~/inhere$ ls
-file00  -file02  -file04  -file06  -file08
-file01  -file03  -file05  -file07  -file09
```
{: .nolineno}

There are multiple files, names starting with -file. if you try to open the file directly it wont open because shell takes '-' symbol as as argument or option. So you have to read it using the full path. Try to read all files.

```ssh
bandit4@bandit:~/inhere$ cat ./-file07
4oQYVPkxZOOEOO5pTW81FB8j8lxXGUQw
```

The password for level five is `4oQYVPkxZOOEOO5pTW81FB8j8lxXGUQw`

> Create you own file to store the passwords of previous levels along with little description how did you find them so that in case the passwords are changed you need not to start from zero.
{: .prompt-tip}
